The Emperor's New Clothes by Hans Christian Andersen

Many years ago, there was an Emperor, who was so excessively fond of new clothes, that he 
spent all his money in dress. He did not trouble himself in the least about his soldiers; nor did 
he care to go either to the theatre or the chase, except for the opportunities then afforded him 
for displaying his new clothes. He had a different suit for each hour of the day; and as of any 
other king or emperor, one is accustomed to say, "he is sitting in council," it was always said of 
him, "The Emperor is sitting in his wardrobe."
Time passed merrily in the large town which was his capital; strangers arrived every day at the 
court. One day, two rogues, calling themselves weavers, made their appearance. They gave out 
that they knew how to weave stuffs of the most beautiful colors and elaborate patterns, the 
clothes manufactured from which should have the wonderful property of remaining invisible to 
everyone who was unfit for the office he held, or who was extraordinarily simple in character.

So the faithful old minister went into the hall, where the knaves were working with all their 
might, at their empty looms. "What can be the meaning of this?" thought the old man, opening 
his eyes very wide. "I cannot discover the least bit of thread on the looms." However, he did not 
express his thoughts aloud.
The impostors requested him very courteously to be so good as to come nearer their looms; 
and then asked him whether the design pleased him, and whether the colors were not very 
beautiful; at the same time pointing to the empty frames. The poor old minister looked and 
looked, he could not discover anything on the looms, for a very good reason, viz: there was 
nothing there. "What!" thought he again. "Is it possible that I am a simpleton? I have never 
thought so myself; and no one must know it now if I am so. Can it be, that I am unfit for my 
office? No, that must not be said either. I will never confess that I could not see the stuff."

"Well, Sir Minister!" said one of the knaves, still pretending to work. "You do not say whether the stuff pleases you."
"Oh, it is excellent!" replied the old minister, looking at the loom through his spectacles. "This pattern, and the colors, yes, I will tell the Emperor without delay, how very beautiful I think them."

"How is this?" said the Emperor to himself. "I can see nothing! This is indeed a terrible affair! 
Am I a simpleton, or am I unfit to be an Emperor? That would be the worst thing that could 
happen--Oh! the cloth is charming," said he, aloud. "It has my complete approbation." And he 
smiled most graciously, and looked closely at the empty looms; for on no account would he say 
that he could not see what two of the officers of his court had praised so much. All his retinue 
now strained their eyes, hoping to discover something on the looms, but they could see no 
more than the others; nevertheless, they all exclaimed, "Oh, how beautiful!" and advised his 
majesty to have some new clothes made from this splendid material, for the approaching 
procession. "Magnificent! Charming! Excellent!" resounded on all sides; and everyone was 
uncommonly gay. The Emperor shared in the general satisfaction; and presented the impostors 
with the riband of an order of knighthood, to be worn in their button-holes, and the title of 
"Gentlemen Weavers."

"I am quite ready," answered the Emperor. "Do my new clothes fit well?" asked he, turning 
himself round again before the looking glass, in order that he might appear to be examining his 
handsome suit.
The lords of the bedchamber, who were to carry his Majesty's train felt about on the ground, as 
if they were lifting up the ends of the mantle; and pretended to be carrying something; for they 
would by no means betray anything like simplicity, or unfitness for their office.
So now the Emperor walked under his high canopy in the midst of the procession, through the 
streets of his capital; and all the people standing by, and those at the windows, cried out, "Oh! 
How beautiful are our Emperor's new clothes! What a magnificent train there is to the mantle; 
and how gracefully the scarf hangs!" in short, no one would allow that he could not see these 
much-admired clothes; because, in doing so, he would have declared himself either a simpleton 
or unfit for his office. Certainly, none of the Emperor's various suits, had ever made so great an 
impression, as these invisible ones.

"But the Emperor has nothing at all on!" said a little child.
"Listen to the voice of innocence!" exclaimed his father; and what the child had said was 
whispered from one to another.
"But he has nothing at all on!" at last cried out all the people. The Emperor was vexed, for he 
knew that the people were right; but he thought the procession must go on now! And the lords 
of the bedchamber took greater pains than ever, to appear holding up a train, although, in 
reality, there was no train to hold.